Previously in Section four of this course reviewed the co-operator and comparable interface for sorting
collections, these interfaces are also the key to sorting stream pipelines.
There are two methods which sort of stream.
So we've got two versions of the sorted method.
The first one has no parameters and returns a stream of type T, so basically returning a stream consisting
of the elements of the stream sorted according to natural order.
And the next overloaded version takes a comparator with a wildcard lower bound T and returns a stream
of type T return to stream consisting of the elements of the stream.
This time they sorted, according to the provided comparator, have already shown sorted in several
previous samples of code.
But in this video I would like to focus exclusively on.
Has created a new class in stream operations project, we're going to call this one stream sort of.
So this code consists firstly of a class called Guest.
Which has two attributes, first and last, all of them protected for ease of use at the moment.
You can see that we've got a constructor there to set both of those attributes, as well as a two string.
And we've got our stream sort of class.
So this main method firstly sets up some test data, a lot of 32, then demonstrating, creating a hash
set from a list of unordered string elements.
That's the test data with the final on 32, they were demonstrating using stream and printing each element.
And I'm doing the same as the above, but using the intermediate operation sorted with no arguments,
as you can see, a line forty seven.
Let's run this.
And we can see the output of both unsorted and then using the sort of operation on stream.
OK, so easy enough right now, let's sort of stream of some guest objects into a pen, some code to
a main method.
So here I'm creating a stream of three guest objects, passing first and last names to the constructor
and again using assorted intermediate operation.
Let's run this.
This time, you can see we've got an exception, you see we've got a class cast exception, their class
guests cannot be cast to Jaradat Languedoc comparable.
So like the classes that implement the collection interface, you cannot sort an object of a type that
doesn't implement the compatible interface.
Well, let's try changing the code.
We don't make a change to our sorted method call.
Now, the comparative class has two static methods.
Natural order and reverse order, which can be invoked, had passed to the source method like this comparator
dot would be natural order.
First, a call to that the method, this change introduced to compile error and have a look at the error.
Quiet type comparator is a wild card, lower bound for guessed, and it's been provided with a type
T there.
In other words, it hasn't been provided with the right parameter.
COMPARATORS can only be used when the element to be sorted implements comparable.
Obviously, we haven't done that yet.
Noted previously that when we read it, we received a runtime exception.
But here we getting compile time error.
So now we've got two choices we can implement comparable or call sorted and pass a comparator lambda
expression or method reference.
So let's try doing that.
So let's actually delete our natural order there from our sort of method.
Call instead.
Let's pass Alhambra expression so I can put parentheses s comma T then our token then s dot last dot
compare to ignore case in parentheses t dot last.
And now if we run this.
We can confirm that the Lambert expression past does indeed sort by last name.
Well, that's one way of doing it.
Let's do it the other way.
Let's go back up to our class guest at the top here.
Our definition and implement comparable.
And obviously, it's going to be a top guest so you can go brackets there and then we need to implement
the comparable method to do that below the two string.
Look at this method to guess is that compared to method and obviously that's eliminated the compile
time ever there you can see that we're just returning last hour compared to ignore case.
Oh, last year.
Oh.
Is the guest object passed to this method.
And then we can go back now and change our stream pipeline to remove the lambrew expression that we
just calling sorted without any parameters and we'll run it and we'll get the same result we saw when
we passed the lambda expression.
Oh so that's that.
So by making it a comparable as we've done, you now have access to some convenience methods.
So what we can do for our sort of ethical here, we can put comparator and call reverse order.
And then if we were on that, you could say that that demonstrates that the order is now reversed.
Now, I covered the comparatives methods in a previous video, but I do want you to try the following
option with the sort of method.
Go back to Comparator again and you've got to put colon colon reverse order that this case generated
a compiler error.
Can't resolve this order.
This kind of area is hard to spot in samples of code on an exam question, a method of reference passed
to the sort of operation must be a reference to a method whose arguments and return type matches comparators,
compare method and not a method that returns a comparator.
If the method returns a comparator as compared to the reverse order, you pass the method invocation
statement as an argument spits out a method to our guest class.
But down the bottom near done that will go back down to assorted methods and will change this comparative
colon colon reverse order to be guest colon colon sought by first.
So using a method reference on the new object that we pasted into guest.
So go back up to our guest class again.
Note that I did not implement Co-operator on Guest and the method.
I just added this one down here.
So Pi first is not named compare, but its method signature.
Otherwise matches compare, compare and therefore can be used as a method reference to this operation.
But let's also change the output of the last line as follows.
That's because we're no sorry my first time.
We want to actually show the airport the first and last name in that order.
So we'll run this.
Is sort of my first time, so there's no limit to the number of times you sought in a pipeline, you
can mix and match how you thought.
That's a some more code, the bottom of our mind method.
So here what I'm doing is I'm first sorting by the length of the string value using peak to display
the sort of strings and then sorting again is incorporated or natural order with a sort of method which
is the same as calling sorted with no argument.
Let's run that.
And we can see the output at the bottom of the screen.
All right, so this video I've reviewed the two sorted methods and you should remember these points,
firstly, the no args sort of method can only be used on a stream of objects whose type implement comparable
invoking, sorted and sorted with compressed natural order as a parameter are basically the same invocation.
Except the second call will give you a compiler error if your object in the stream does not implement
comparable the first because the runtime exception, if comparable, was not implemented.
The comparative reverse order method can be passed to the sorted method, but again only for objects
that implement comparable comparator calling card in reverse order and or comparative call color natural
order are not valid method of references for the sort of method, the sort of method with a single argument
accepts a lambda expression, method, reference or method invocation that represents the comparator.
Compared to method, you can't sort any set of elements on a stream using the sort of method and passing
it.
A lambda expression representing a comparative.
I just want to point out that although I've been using for each, there is an additional terminal operation
for each ordered, if you execute either of these in a stream that's not parallel, your results will
probably be the same, except in the streams where the order is indeterminate.
You can see the differences when using parallel streams and out of this demonstration until the video
on parallel streams.
In the next video, I want to talk about grouping elements of the stream.
So let's move on now to the next video.